---
title: "cfp"
bg: '#DFC3B9'
color: black
fa-icon: bullhorn
---

# Call for Papers

Continued language and hardware development requires continued effort to identify new sources of potential optimization, and develop novel techniques for new contexts. Moreover, the end of processor frequency scaling has made compiler optimizations more important than ever. However, varying programming models and dynamic runtimes have made it hard to understand system performance. The advent of multicore processors has made it difficult to achieve both high programmer productivity and performance. The workshop on Compiler-Driven Performance (CDP) provides a unique opportunity for academic researchers, industry researchers, and software developers to examine the state-of-the-art compiler technology and discuss future directions for research and development.


The 16<sup>th</sup> Workshop on Compiler-Driven Performance (CDP) will be co-located with [27<sup>th</sup> International Conference on Computer Science and Software Engineering (CASCON 2017)](http://cascon.ca/) in Markham, ON, Canada. CDP enables researchers to share progress in developing new approaches to existing problems and in identifying new optimization opportunities and performance vectors for current and future languages. Compiler optimization research is a highly practical domain, but also one in which cutting-edge research techniques can have direct application. CDP brings together researchers from both academia and industry to discuss the current challenges in the field and brainstorm solutions for the future.

## Topics

Developments in computing technology motivate a number of key challenges for compilers to address. The workshop has a particular focus on (but not limited to):

* Innovative compiler analysis, transformation, and optimization techniques
* Languages, compilers, and optimization techniques for multicore processors and other parallel architectures
* Compiling for streaming or heterogeneous hardware
* Dynamic compilation for high-performance and real-time environments
* Compilation, optimization, and analysis for dynamic languages
* Compilation techniques for reducing power
* Program safety
* Whole system optimization and analysis
* Tools and infrastructure for compiler research

## Submission Information

CDP 2017 invites contributions in the form of **talk abstracts** from researchers and practitioners. Each submission should include talk title, the author list with affiliations, and a brief abstract. Please also identify the presenter and include a 1-2 sentence biography. All submissions should be made through [EasyChair](https://easychair.org/conferences/?conf=cdp17).

CDP does not publish proceedings. Presenters are required to provide an electronic copy of their slides. The slides will be available on this website soon after the workshop. Work that has been recently published or submitted for publication is welcome.

## Important Dates

Submissions due
: ~Friday October 6th 2017~

Notification to authors
: ~Friday October 13th 2017~

Workshop date
: Wednesday November 8th 2017
